Assignment No: - DL-Group1-4

TITLE	Time series analysis
PROBLEM STATEMENT
/DEFINITION	Recurrent neural network (RNN) Use the Google stock prices dataset and design a time series analysis and prediction system using RNN.
OBJECTIVE	To build a RNN model to predict the stock price and time analysis .
OUTCOME	To understand the exploratory data analysis,split the training and testing data, Model Evaluation and Prediction by the RNN on the google stock price dataset..
S/W PACKAGES AND HARDWARE/ APPARATUS USED	Jupyter notebook IDE, python3
PC with the configuration as Latest Version of 64 bit Operating
Systems, Open Source Fedora-GHz. 8 G.B. RAM, 500 G.B. HDD, 15"Color Monitor, Keyboard, Mouse
REFERENCES	https://www.kaggle.com/code/kandij/google-stock-prediction-using- lstm-keras
https://medium.com/analytics-vidhya/share-price-prediction-using- rnn-and-lstm-8776456dea6f
STEPS	Installing Jupyter notebook with python3
import the required libraries- numpy,matplotlib.pyplot,pandas,seaborn
Importing Data (kaggle and scikit-learn library) and Checking out
Exploratory Data Analysis for stock price Prediction and time series analysis
Get Data Ready For Training RNN model Split Data into Train, Test
INSTRUCTIONS FOR WRITING JOURNAL	Date Assignment no.
Problem definition Learning objective Learning Outcome Concepts related Theory Algorithm
Test cases
Conclusion/Analysis
 
Prerequisites: Programming language, machine learning Concepts related Theory:
Recursive Neural Network (RNN) should be specially designed. RNN translates the provided inputs to machine readable vectors. Then the system processes each of this sequence of vectors one by one, moving from very first vector to the next one in a sequential order. While processing, the system passes the information through the hidden state (memory) to the next step of the sequence. Once the hidden state has collected all the existing information in the system until time period t, it is ready to move towards the next step and in this newer step the hidden step is classified as the previous hidden state defined.The outputs of the previous periods should somewhat become the inputs of the current periods. And the hidden layers will recursively take the inputs of previous periods. The hidden layer receives the inputs from the input layer, and there is a line to connect a hidden layer back to itself to represent the recursive nature.


Training through RNN

1.	A single time step of the input is provided to the network.
2.	Then calculate its current state using set of current input and the previous state.
3.	The current ht becomes ht-1 for the next time step.
4.	One can go as many time steps according to the problem and join the information from all the previous states.
5.	Once all the time steps are completed the final current state is used to calculate the output.
6.	The output is then compared to the actual output i.e the target output and the error is generated.
7.	The error is then back-propagated to the network to update the weights and hence the network (RNN) is trained.
Advantages of Recurrent Neural Network

1.	An RNN remembers each and every information through time. It is useful in time series prediction only because of the feature to remember previous inputs as well. This is called Long Short Term Memory.
2.	Recurrent neural network are even used with convolutional layers to extend the effective
 
pixel neighborhood.

Disadvantages of Recurrent Neural Network

1.	Gradient vanishing and exploding problems.
2.	Training an RNN is a very difficult task.
3.	It cannot process very long sequences if using tanh or relu as an activation function.

For example , we have considered the amazon stock data for prediction and explained in detail in the similar way Google stock prediction should be implemented and plot the graph

Algorithm:

Import Libraries: Install the required libraries and setup for the environment for the assignment. importing SciKit-Learn, Pandas, Seaborn, Matplotlib ,Tensorflow and Numpy.





Importing Data and Checking out: As data is in the CSV file, we will read the CSV using pandas read_csv function and check the first 5 rows of the data frame using head().


 
Visualize the data using matplotlib

13.Training the data

 
Creating the Training data



Building the Long Short Term Model



→Compiling the model


 
Training the
model

Creating the test data


To get predicted price values



Evaluation and Visualizing the predicted values of the amazon stock prices

 
 
Conclusion-We have analyzed a RNN Model on amazon stock prediction and in similar way Google stock prediction can be calculated whose prediction model will be as below graph.

Prediction Results

Comparing the real Google stock values and predicted Google stock values that are generated using RNN model, for the test period, the first month of 2021. RNN based on 5 LSTMs was able to properly predict all upward and downward trends as we see that the red line corresponding to the predicted stock prices follows the same pattern as the blue line which corresponds to the real stock prices.



Review Questions:

1.	What's the difference between Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) and Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN) and in which cases would use each one?
2.	How many dimensions must the inputs of an RNN layer have? What does each dimension represent? What about its outputs?
3.	What are the main difficulties when training RNNs?
4.	What are the uses of using RNN in NLP?
5.	What's the difference between Traditional Feedforward Networks and Recurrent Neural Networks?
6.	How to calculate the output of a Recurrent Neural Network (RNN)?
7.	How does LSTM compare to RNN?
