Assignment No: - DL-Group1-1

TITLE	Linear regression by using Deep Neural network
PROBLEM STATEMENT
/DEFINITION	Implement Boston housing price prediction problem by Linear regression using Deep Neural network. Use Boston House price prediction dataset.
OBJECTIVE	To build a regression model to predict the price of houses.
OUTCOME	To understand the exploratory data analysis,split the training and testing data, Model Evaluation and Prediction by the linear regression on the Boston housing dataset.
S/W PACKAGES AND HARDWARE/ APPARATUS USED	Jupyter notebook IDE, python3
PC with the configuration as Latest Version of 64 bit Operating
Systems, Open Source Fedora-GHz. 8 G.B. RAM, 500 G.B. HDD, 15"Color Monitor, Keyboard, Mouse
REFERENCES	1.	https://studygyaan.com/data-science-ml/linear-regression- machine-learning-project-for-house-price-prediction
2.	https://towardsdatascience.com/linear-regression-on-boston- housing-dataset-f409b7e4a155
STEPS	Installing Jupyter notebook with python3

1)	import the required libraries-
numpy,matplotlib.pyplot,pandas,seaborn

2)	Importing Data (kaggle and
scikit-learn library) and Checking out

3)	Exploratory Data Analysis for House Price Prediction

4)	Get Data Ready For Training a Linear Regression Model

5)	Split Data into Train, Test

6)	Creating and Training the LinearRegression Model

7)	LinearRegression Model Evaluation

8)	Predictions from our Linear Regression Model

9)	Regression Evaluation Metrics.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR WRITING JOURNAL	1.	Date
2.	Assignment no.
3.	Problem definition
 
	4.	Learning objective
5.	Learning Outcome
6.	Concepts related Theory
7.	Algorithm
8.	Test cases
9.	Conclusion/Analysis
 
Prerequisites: Programming language, machine learning Concepts related Theory:
Linear Regression is a Supervised Machine Learning Model for finding the relationship between independent variables and dependent variable. Linear regression performs the task to predict the response (dependent) variable value (y) based on a given (independent) explanatory variable (x). So, this regression technique finds out a linear relationship between x (input) and y (output).

Algorithm:

Import Libraries: Install the required libraries and setup for the environment for the assignment. importing SciKit-Learn, Pandas, Seaborn, Matplotlib and Numpy.


Importing Data and Checking out: As data is in the CSV file, we will read the CSV using pandas read_csv function and check the first 5 rows of the data frame using head().
 
 

Exploratory Data Analysis for House Price Prediction : create some simple plot for visualizing the data.
 
 
 
 

Get Data Ready For Training a Linear Regression Model: now begin to train out the regression model. We will need to first split up our data into an X list that contains the features to train on, and a y list with the target variable, in this case, the Price column. We will ignore the Address column because it only has text which is not useful for linear regression modeling.



Split Data into Train, Test: Now split our dataset into a training set and testing set using sklearn train_test_split(). The training set will be used for training the model and testing set for testing the model. We are creating a split of 40% training data and 60% of the training set.
 
 
X_train and y_train contain data for the training model. X_test and y_test contain data for the testing model. X and y are features and target variable names.

Creating and Training the LinearRegression Model: import and create sklearn linear_model LinearRegression object and fit the training dataset in it.



LinearRegression Model Evaluation: Now let’s evaluate the model by checking out its coefficients and how we can interpret them
 
 



Predictions from our Linear Regression Model: Let’s find out the predictions of our test set and see how well it performs.
 
 
In the above scatter plot, we see data is in a line form, which means our model has done good predictions.

Regression Evaluation Metrics:Here are three common evaluation metrics for regression problems:
 
 

Conclusion-We have analyzed a Linear Regression Model which we help the real estate agent for estimating the house price.

Review Questions:
1)	Difference between machine learning and deep learning?

2)	How is linear regression used in house price prediction?

3)	What is the purpose of house price prediction?

4)	What is a Linear Regression?

5)	What is the primary difference between R square and adjusted R square?

6)	List out the formulas to find RMSE and MSE?

7)	What are the disadvantages of the linear regression model?

8)	Name a possible method of improving the accuracy of a linear regression model?
