Assignment No: - DL-Group1-3

TITLE	Plant Disease analysis and detection using Convolutional neural network (CNN)
PROBLEM STATEMENT
/DEFINITION	Convolutional neural network (CNN) (Any One from the following)
•	Use any dataset of plant disease and design a plant disease detection system using CNN.
•	Use MNIST Fashion Dataset and create a classifier to classify fashion clothing into categories
(Analyze and detect the plant diseases using CNN Model by training the data set.)
OBJECTIVE	To build a CNN model to detect Plant diseases .
OUTCOME	To understand the exploratory data analysis,split the training and testing data, Model Evaluation and Prediction by the CNN on the Plant disease detection data set
S/W PACKAGES AND HARDWARE/ APPARATUS USED	Jupyter notebook IDE, python3
PC with the configuration as Latest Version of 64 bit Operating Systems, Open Source Fedora-GHz. 8 G.B. RAM, 500 G.B. HDD, 15"Color Monitor, Keyboard, Mouse
REFERENCES	https://www.kaggle.com/code/deveshkaushik/plant-disease-detection- using-cnn
https://www.kaggle.com/code/emmarex/plant-disease-detection- using-keras
STEPS	1.		Installing Jupyter notebook with python3
2.		import the required libraries- numpy,matplotlib.pyplot,pandas,seaborn
3.	Importing Data (kaggle and
scikit-learn library) and Checking out
4.		Exploratory Data Analysis for stock price Prediction and time series analysis
5.		Get Data Ready For Training RNN model
6.	Split Data into Train, Test
INSTRUCTIONS FOR WRITING JOURNAL	1.	Date
2.	Assignment no.
3.	Problem definition
 
	4.	Learning objective
5.	Learning Outcome
6.	Concepts related Theory
7.	Algorithm
8.	Test cases
9.	Conclusion/Analysis
 
Prerequisites: Programming language, machine learning Concepts related Theory:
Deep Convolutional Neural Network is utilized in this study to identify infected and healthy leaves, as well as to detect illness in afflicted plants. The CNN model is designed to suit both healthy and sick leaves; photos are used to train the model, and the output is determined by the input leaf.
Algorithm:
Importing Libraries: Importing the required libraries which will be used to train the model.such as numpy, tensor flow.

 

Importing Data and Checking out: As data is in the CSV file, we will read the CSV using pandas read_csv function and check the first 5 rows of the data frame using head().



Exploratory Data Analysis forPlant Disease :
 
 


Get Data Ready For Training using CNN Model:


Split Data into Train, Test: Now split our dataset into a training set and testing set using sklearn train_test_split(). The training set will be used for training the model and testing set for testing the model. We are creating a split of 40% training data and 60% of the training set.

X_train and y_train contain data for the training model. X_test and y_test contain data for the testing	model. X and y are features and target variable names.

Creating and Training the CNN Model : import and create sklearn linear_model LinearRegression object and fit the training dataset in it.
 
 


CNN Model Evaluation: Now let’s evaluate the model by checking out its coefficients and how we can interpret them.
10.	 



In the above scatter plot, we see data is in a line form, which means our model has done good
 
predictions.
Conclusion-We have analyzed a CNN Model which will help to predict plant disease.
Review Questions:
1.	What is the use of the convolution layer in CNN?
2.	What are the advantages of using CNN over DNN?
3.	Why is CNN preferred over ANN for image data?
4.	How would you visualise features of CNN in an image classification task?
5.	What do you understand about shared weights in CNN?
6.	Explain the role of a fully connected (FC) layer in CNN.
7.	What is the importance of parameter sharing
8.	Explain the different types of Pooling.
